The pink trumpet tree has many medicinal properties and is used for the treatment of a plethora of ailments. The leaves and flowers of the tree are primarily made into teas and drank. The bark of the tree has the most medicinal properties and can be found in health stores as tea or in capsules.00
A medium-sized tree that grows up to about 25 m tall under cultivation, its leaves are smooth to slightly velvety and arranged spirally at the ends of the branches. This species is semi-deciduous, shedding its leaves once to twice a year, usually in response to dry weather.01
Indian gooseberry, or amla, is a fruit tree that grows natively in parts of Asia. It has several culinary and herbal medicine uses, particularly in its native India. The fruit is rich in vitamin C and often purported to have potential antioxidant and heart-health benefits.02
Mango trees are evergreen trees with a wide canopy and thick trunk. The leaves are leathery, lanceolate and found in sophisticated arrangements on the branches. They are dark green in colour and grow up to 15 inches in length. The mango is called the “King of Fruits” due to its rich taste and aromatic flavour.03
Rose apple trees were a prominent plant featured in the story of Siddhartha Gautama, the well-known spiritual teacher who founded Buddhism. In the story, the young prince was sitting under the shade of the Rose apple tree while his father was attending a nearby plowing festival.04
Indian almonds display a vibrant spectacle of colors as they ripen: green at first, then changing to yellow, and finally a deep red or sharp magenta. Some greenish varieties go from dark green to brown. Indian almonds may be collected from the ground if recently fallen, by hand, or with use of a long pole for pruning.06
According to religious texts, Shami tree is mentioned in both Ramayana and Mahabharata. In Ramayana, Lord Rama worshipped it before the Lanka war, while in Mahabharata, Arjuna hid his Gandiva bow in its branches. Plus, the leaves of the Shami tree are also given during the puja of Lord Ganesha and Goddess Durga Maa.07
Paper mulberry, (Broussonetia papyrifera), fast-growing tree of the family Moraceae, native to Asia. The inner bark of the paper mulberry yields a fibre used for papermaking and in Polynesia for the manufacture of a coarse fabric called tapa cloth.09
Gooseberries are a good source of vitamin C and fiber, but they are also very high in vitamin A, which is important for eye health. Each gooseberry bush produces 8-10 pounds of fruit. Some wild varieties of gooseberries can have a spiky skin on them. Gooseberries are smaller than a plum, but larger than a grape.10
Jamun is found all over India. Jamun fruits are a good source of iron and are said to be useful in the troubles of heart and liver. The seeds of Jamun are an effective medicine against diabetes and their powder is widely used in India to control diabetes.11
Ficus genus has more than 850 species of trees, shrubs, and vines, many of which are commonly known as figs. Nearly all types of Ficus plants produce fruits called fig. However, there is only one type of Ficus with edible fruits. It is called Ficus Carica.12
Guava usually grows to about 20 feet in height. Guava produces white flowers. Guava begins producing fruit for only 2 to 8 years after planting and produced fruits only twice a year. Guava contains 100 to 500 miniature seeds inside the middle of the fruit.13
Its trunk can be up to 1.9 metres (6.2 ft) in diameter. The tree has a narrow umbelliform crown. It has strongly fragrant flowers in varying shades of cream to yellow-orange which bloom during June to September. The obovoid-ellipsoid carpels produce 2−4 seeds during September to October.14
The Areca Palm Tree is not only beautiful but also fascinating with its various interesting facts. Besides, it is known to be one of the best air purifiers. NASA's Clean Air Study found that Areca Palms can remove up to 90% of harmful chemicals, making them one of the best plants to improve indoor air quality.16
The tree is planted for ornamental purposes mainly for its fragrant flowers. The tree trunk is brittle and is often vulnerable to storm damages. The bark is used as an inferior substitute for cork. The leaves are recognized to have antimicrobial, anti-asthmatic, anti-pyretic, antifungal and larvicidal activity.17
Jackfruit is the largest fruit grown on a tree. It takes 5-7 years before a tree will produce fruit. Jackfruit trees will produce 150- 200 fruits per year. The fruit is picked in the summer and fall before they fall off the tree.19
Kauri are among the world's mightiest trees, growing to over 50 m tall, with trunk girths up to 16 m, and living for over 2,000 years. Kauri forests once covered 1.2 million ha from the Far North of Northland to Te Kauri, near Kawhia and were common when the first people arrived around 1,000 years ago.20
Terminalia, commonly known as Arjun Chaal, belongs to the family of Combretaceae. Its bark decoction is being used in the Indian subcontinent for anginal pain, hypertension,congestive heart failure, and dyslipidemia, based on the observations of ancient physicians for centuries.21
The coconut tree is botanically named Cocus Nucifera and they can grow up to 82 feet (25 meters) high. Coconut water contains 94% water (on average) with approximately 46 calories a cup. A coconut tree can produce up to 180 coconuts during a single harvest.23
The Indian fig opuntia is one of the most important cacti in the world in agricultural economics,as its fruit and stems are sold and used in plenty of countries. In Andalusia, it has been used for separating farms and properties, as well as for hedges.25
The sapota tree is a slow-growing, evergreen plant that can reach heights of 30 to 40 feet. Its glossy, dark green leaves are unique, and it produces small, unnoticeable flowers. The fruits it bears are round to oval, about the size of a baseball, with rough, brownish skin and sweet, juicy pulp.26
Jacarandas are deciduous, meaning that they lose their leaves in the autumn. They have large, spreading crests, or tops. A jacaranda tree can grow taller than 39 feet (12 meters). In South Africa tens of thousands of jacarandas have been planted in such cities as Pretoria, Johannesburg, Pietermaritzburg, and Kimberley.27
Leaf: Twice-feathered, up to 40 pairs of side stalks and up to 100 pairs of very small crowded leaflets on each side of the side stalks. Season: Flowers appear in late Jan. Range/habitat: Originally from Malaysia, but very rare in its natural habitat.28
It grows up to 2 metres tall and has a slender, upright shape and an overall elegant appearance. The plants have narrow leaves with toothed edges that are arranged in the shape of a hand, emerging from the centre like rays from its long stems.31
Silver Oak is a large evergreen tree known for its distinctive fern-like leaves and silver-gray bark. It is often planted for its fast growth and valuable wood. This tree can reach impressive heights of up to 150 feet, making it a favorite for timber production and as an ornamental tree.32
Camels' feet have two large, evenly sized toes with hooves like small nails at the tip of each toe. Each foot has a wide, cushioned pad at the bottom. The pad makes the camel stable by spreading its weight evenly across the wide foot.34
Lemon eucalyptus is a tree. Oil from the leaves is applied to the skin as a medicine and insect repellent. Lemon eucalyptus oil is used for preventing mosquito and deer tick bites; for treating muscle spasms, toenail fungus (onychomycosis), and osteoarthritis and other joint pain.35
The tamarind is a long-lived, medium-growth tree, which attains a maximum crown height of 25 metres (80 feet). The crown has an irregular, vase-shaped outline of dense foliage. The tree grows well in full sun.36
The tamarind is a long-lived, medium-growth tree, which attains a maximum crown height of 25 metres (80 feet). The crown has an irregular, vase-shaped outline of dense foliage. The tree grows well in full sun.37
Rather than growing underground, its roots grow from its branches, so it's always growing outward. Banyans, like other Ficus trees, have a unique form of pollination. These trees provide shelter and fruit for a specific kind of wasp that is their only pollinator.39
India is the largest milk producer in the world. The world's largest road network is in India - over 1.9 million miles of roads cover the country. Martial arts was first created in India.40
Sandalwood is a commercially and culturally important plant species especially in India belonging to the family Santalaceae. The wood is valued in carving because of its dense character. Sandalwood oil is extracted from the heartwood by steam distillation. The average yield of oil ranges from 3.0% to 6.0%.41
Night-blooming jasmine is an evergreen shrub that displays glossy green leaves and tiny white flowers. Native to the West Indies in the Caribbean, night-blooming jasmine grows best in USDA hardiness zones nine through eleven. In these growing zones, night-blooming jasmine attracts various pollinators.44
Manila tamarind is a multipurpose tree. Its pods are edible and contain a thick sweetish acidic pulp. They can be eaten raw or processed into a soft drink similar to lemonade. Oil can be extracted from the seeds and is used for cooking or for making soaps (FAO, 2011).45
Cassia fistula is a multipurpose tree. It is widely grown as an ornamental plant in tropical and subtropical areas due to its profuse flowering. The flower of the golden tree is Thailand's national symbol (Royal Thai Government, 2001) and the state flower of the Kerala state in India.46
Its gum, Bengal Kino is used for the treatment of diarrhoea and dysentery. Its flowers are rich in sulphur and used for the treatment of skin-related diseases. These flowers when sun-dried are used to make a natural dye for the festival of colors – Holi.47
The leaves of the Gulmohar tree are anti-diabetic. These leaves' methanol extract is used to lower blood glucose levels. The leaves of the Gulmohar tree may offer hepatoprotection. These plants have anti-diarrheal qualities in their leaves.49
Biodiesel is not toxic or flammable and is biodegradable. It has the highest energy balance of any fuel. 3.2 units of energy are gained for every one unit of fossil energy needed to produce biodiesel.50
The seeds are dispersed by birds, and the plant can form dense thickets, preventing establishment of native species. In addition, the leaves are fruits are said to be poisonous to people and animals, with a few incidents reported.51
Kadamba is mentioned in the Bhagavata Purana. In North India, it is associated with Krishna while in the south it is known as "Parvati's tree". Radha and Krishna are supposed to have conducted their love play in the hospitable and sweet-scented shade of the kadamba tree.52
Peepal tree also known as Bodhi Satva Vruksha is a sacred tree that holds a major religious, spiritual significance. Known for its therapeutic properties the bark, roots, leaves, fruits of this wonder tree are used extensively in Ayurveda for treating lung disorders, skin conditions and various digestive issues.53
Flowers are bright yellow and funnel-shaped with 5 petals spirally twisted. The fruits are somewhat globular, slightly fleshy and have a diameter of 4-5 cm. The fruits, which are green in colour, become black on ripening. Each fruit contains a nut which is longitudinally and transversely divided.54
These trees can grow up to 3 feet per year until maturity in ideal growing conditions. Their ultimate height is 50-60 feet tall and their width can be up to 12-20 feet. Thuja Green Giants grow in a uniform, columnar shape, without homeowners having to worry about pruning or shearing.56
In the wild, the rubber tree will grow to heights of 100 to 130 feet, and can live up to 100 years. Its most famous feature is the milky white sap, known as latex, which flows freely from the tree when a sliver of bark is removed.58
A very hardy deciduous tree, it tolerates cold and hot weather. Trunk of Honge or Indian Beech Tree is brown, fissured, straight or crooked. Honge or Indian Beech tree can grow to a height of 80 feet. Leaves of the tree are alternate, short stalked, ovate, with smooth edges.60
History. Lychee is of local importance throughout much of Southeast Asia and is grown commercially in China and India. Its introduction into the Western world came when it reached Jamaica in 1775. The first lychee fruits in Florida—where the tree has attained commercial importance—are said to have ripened in 1916.61
The name achiote derives from the Nahuatl word for the shrub, āchiotl [aːˈt͡ʃiot͡ɬ]. It may also be referred to as aploppas, or by its original Tupi name uruku, urucu or urucum ("red color"), which is also used for the body paint prepared from its seeds.66
Papayas grow in tropical areas around the world. Leading producers of the fruit are Brazil, Nigeria, Indonesia, and India. The papaya plant is as tall as a tree. Some papaya plants reach 26 feet (8 meters) in height.68
Hibiscus mutabilis is a very striking mallow that produces huge flowers, similar in form to a double rose or peony. As 'mutabilis' (changeable) suggests, the flowers mature from white through pink to red, displaying flowers of all three colours on the same shrub. Well, that's what Wikipedia says.69
The roots and leaves of the star fruit tree are often used as a treatment for ringworm infections, chickenpox, and headaches. Star fruit is also used as a preventative to cardiovascular disorders and some types of cancer because it contains certain elements that prevent the development of these illnesses.70
It also has a treasure trove of good nutrients. It has a lot of vitamin C, which boosts your immune system, and B vitamins, which keep your metabolism in check. Chakotra has a lot of good antioxidants like carotenoid, flavonoid, and phenolic antioxidants that are very good for the skin.71
Agastya was a revered Indian sage of Hinduism. In the Indian tradition, he is a noted recluse and an influential scholar in diverse languages of the Indian subcontinent. He and his wife Lopamudra are the celebrated authors of hymns 1.165 to 1.191 in the Sanskrit text Rigveda and other Vedic literature.75
The curry leaf plant belongs to the citrus family and it produces small fragrant white flowers that become small, black, berry-like fruits. The fruit is edible, but the seed is poisonous and must be removed prior to use. Curry leaves are mostly used fresh – but they can be dried, powdered and stored too.78
The rudraksha tree starts bearing drupes (fruit) in three to four years from germination. It yields between 1,000 and 2,000 fruits annually. These fruits are commonly called "rudraksha fruit", but are also known as amritaphala (fruits of ambrosia).79
The Foxtail Palm, or Wodyetia Bifurcata, is a palm species in the Arecaceae family indigenous to Queensland in Australia. The genus Wodyetia is the only species. The Foxtail Palm is a quick-growing tree that produces fronds with a lush, full, feathery appearance and is suitable for frost-free areas.81
Sago palm grows quickly and it dominates in tropical peat swamp rainforests, where other crop plants do not thrive. Sago palm is a kind of semiwild species but not a well-established crop plant. In the wild and in cultivation, sago palm is mostly propagated vegetatively through its suckers.82